---
title: Cannot ping from you new Raspberry Pi with Raspbian PIXEL? 
category: linux
tags: [linux, raspberry]
teaser: http://blog.abarbanell.de/assets/img/2016/10/cd-2.png
---

My newest Raspberry Pi model 3 got a shiny new FLIR case and therefore is allowed 
to leave the home office and start a new career as a guest internet station in our 
living room. Thanks to the Wifi this was easier than expected, only one small problem came up: 

# Problem with ```ping``` command

I could not ping any IP address, whether outside or in our home.
I got a strange message like this: 

	tobias@rpi06:~ $ ping abarbanell.de
	ping: icmp open socket: Operation not permitted

However I could browse the internet, log in from remote, and many other things, 
so what could be wrong? 

Investigation showed that I could ping under root account or sudo: 

	tobias@rpi01 ~ $ sudo ping abarbanell.de
	PING abarbanell.de (81.169.145.164) 56(84) bytes of data.

but also from my other Raspberry Pi's it worked fine - all of them
running older versions of Raspbian.

	tobias@rpi01 ~ $ ping abarbanell.de
	PING abarbanell.de (81.169.145.164) 56(84) bytes of data.
	64 bytes from wa4.rzone.de (81.169.145.164): icmp_req=1 ttl=245 time=27.6 ms
	64 bytes from wa4.rzone.de (81.169.145.164): icmp_req=2 ttl=245 time=27.5 ms

# Investigation

Looked like something different with the permissions, so I quickly investigated
the difference. Found out that the working Raspberry had the 
Set-UID bit switched on for the ping command: 

Old, working ok: 

	tobias@rpi01 ~ $ ls -l `which ping`
	-rwsr-xr-x 1 root root 33220 Mar 30  2012 /bin/ping

Raspbian Pixel, not working: 

	tobias@rpi06:~ $ ls -l `which ping`
	-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 38844 Feb 12  2014 /bin/ping

Then the fix was as easy as 

	tobias@rpi06:~ $ sudo chmod u+s `which ping`

and it was looking better after that:

tobias@rpi06:~ $ ls -l `which ping`
-rwsr-xr-x 1 root root 38844 Feb 12  2014 /bin/ping

And of coursse it also worked: 

	tobias@rpi06:~ $ ping abarbanell.de
	PING abarbanell.de (81.169.145.164) 56(84) bytes of data.
	64 bytes from wa4.rzone.de (81.169.145.164): icmp_seq=1 ttl=245 time=35.0 ms
	64 bytes from wa4.rzone.de (81.169.145.164): icmp_seq=2 ttl=245 time=36.2 ms

# Conclusion

I hope this may be of help for some people out in the Internet, at least this note will serve as a reminder 
to myself when I get the next Raspberry Pi.

Meanwhile, feel free to let me know what you think in the comments below, 
or enjoy some of 
my [cat videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YPZPXDizUkU&list=PLyu5cHg7bWPjyymUCRJcpN_-fyoZzvlWh)









