---
title: "Inverse Conway's Law"
category: Agile
tags: [agile]
date: 2019-01-25
---

In this article I would like to give a few examples how the
organization of software development teams and the 
system architecture influence each other. 

# Conway's Law

Developing Software systems is just an example of
systems design in a more general sense, so we find 
the well known "Conway's Law" which,
according to this 
[wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_law)
is cited as:

> organizations which design systems ... are 
> constrained to produce designs which are copies of 
> the communication structures of these organizations."
>
>  -- M. Conway [How do Committees invent?](http://www.melconway.com/Home/Committees_Paper.html)

# Example

I was joining a small team working on an ecommerce 
marketplace platform. Because they also wanted some 
marketing pages to go with this, they have integrated a 
CMS module inside their marketplace. This has lead to a 
tight coupling of the CMS and the marketplace, which 
worked for a team of 2-3 people. Conway's law in its 
most basic manifestation.

As the organization grew, this was creating problems, 
because the CMS was now tightly integrated and a lot of 
the assumptions of the marketplace system were 
reflected in the CMS module.

A better approach would have been to run this as two 
separate systems. 

If we had two different teams responsible for the 
separate concerns of market place and public marketing 
frontend, then the separation of systems would have 
come naturally.

Of course this is not the only way to get to the 
desired system design, but it shows that the 
organization you set up has an influence on the system 
design you build.

# What follows out of it

As a consequence, you need to think organization 
and system design 
together. While the organization structure is a 
constraint for the system design (Conway's law) it 
can also 
be used to purposefully set a constraint to influence 
the system design, or to make a certain system design 
easier to follow. 

# The Inverse Conway's Law

This gets us to the topic of this article: How can we 
use organization design to drive system design? 

> When designing organizations which design systems you > should align the organization structure with the 
> desired communication structure of these systems.
> 
> -- Tobias Abarbanell

# How to apply it

Understand which parts of your system you want to be 
tightly or loosely coupled.

- Keep together what belongs together
- Keep separate what should know each other only as a "black box"  

If you want to build a multipurpose API for multiple 
clients (Web, mobile, etc.) then it the API and 
its clients are good candidates to separate.
This way you can  make sure that the client only 
uses the documented interface of the API, and not any
implementation assumptions it happens to know. 

Also, you do not want some client developers negotiating
implementation details of the API internals "over a
coffee" with the backend developers. This could easily 
break the re-usability of the API for other clients.

If you build a multipurpose API for Mobile, Web, and
other clients it may be actually helpful to separate
the client developers from your API developers in 
different teams, which should communicate mainly over 
the published API
functionality. This way any "whitebox" knowledge for
the API users can be eliminated and the "multipurpose"
property of the API is easier to achieve.

# Conclusion

I just wanted to show that Conway's law is not a 
one-way street, and while it cannot be ignored without 
bad consequences, it can actually sometimes be used to 
your advantage.

#### Looking for something else? 
Enjoy some of my [cat videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YPZPXDizUkU&list=PLyu5cHg7bWPjyymUCRJcpN_-fyoZzvlWh).

#### Think cat videos are bullshit? 

Then try this: [Cowshit is the new Bullshit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bLTNhu8izu0).






